Docs maintenance (#625)
stackabletech/nifi-operator: docs/modules/nifi/pages/usage_guide/custom_processors.adoc

= Loading custom components
:nifi-docs-custom-components: https://nifi.apache.org/docs/nifi-docs/html/developer-guide.html#introduction

It is possible to develop {nifi-docs-custom-components}[custom components] for Apache NiFi to extend the available functionality - most often this will probably be custom processors.

For these to be available in the NiFi UI, they need to be present in the classpath at startup, so the nar bundles have to be injected into your NiFi instance.

The Stackable Data Platform supports two ways to achive this goal, both of which are described below.

Please note that building your own Docker image is the recommended solution, as giving multiple pods access to a shared PVC can often be tricky (see comment on access mode in the second section).

== Custom Docker image

> You can extend the official Stackable NiFi image and copy all required nar files into the classpath of Nifi.

Reviewer: TIL: NAR files are a thing. I assumed it was a typo for JAR.

Maybe it should be emphasised in some way?

```suggestion
You can extend the official Stackable NiFi image and copy all required _nar_ files into the classpath of Nifi.
```

The benefit of this method is that there is no need for any config overrides or extra mounts, you can use any ouf our NiFi examples, swap the image and your components will be available.
But this means you will need to have access to a registry to push your custom image to.

> A basic Dockerfile would look like shown in the listing below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic Dockerfile below shows how to achieve this:
```

    custom: "docker.company.org/nifi:1.25.0-customprocessor"
----

Also read the xref:guides:custom-images.adoc[Using customized product images] guide for additional information.

== Using the official image
If you don't want to create a custom image or don't have access to an image registry, you can use the extra volume mount functionality to mount a volume containing your custom components and configure NiFi to read these from the mounted volumes.

For this to work you'll need to prepare a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) containing your components.

> Usually the best way to do this will be to mount the PVC into a temporary container and then `kubectl cp` the nar files into that volume.

Reviewer: (part of the previous one)

```suggestion
Usually the best way to do this will be to mount the PVC into a temporary container and then `kubectl cp` the _nar_ files into that volume.
```
